
Set Up Node & NPM
Previous: 1. Exercise: Node and NPM SetupExit book
2. Exercise: Using NPM
For written instructions, scroll down below the video.



Click here if you wish to open this video in its own window.


Objectives
Set up the package.json file for your NPM project. 
Install an NPM package and use it with your project.

Initialize your folder as an NPM project
First, in your bash terminal, go to your git-test folder and enter the command:
npm init
Press enter multiple times to accept the default values.
This will create a file named package.json in your git-test folder. This file contains all the configuration information that NPM will use to manage your project development, including keeping track of installed dependencies, running useful scripts, and more. 

Install an NPM Module
You will now install an NPM module, lite-server, that allows you to run a lightweight, Node.js-based development web server and serve up your project files. It is a mock web server to use for testing during development, not a real web server. To install it, type the following at the command prompt:
npm install lite-server@2.5.4 --save-dev
NOTE: the --save-dev flag means that lite-server is being installed as a development dependency, which means that later, when you build your project for deployment, it will not be included in the final build files, since it is only needed during development. 
You can check out more documentation on lite-server here.
Next, open package.json in your editor and modify it as shown below.  
{
  "name": "git-test",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Git and Node",
  "main": "index.html",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1",
    "start": "npm run lite",
    "lite": "lite-server"
  },
  "repository": {
    "type": "git"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC",
  "devDependencies": {
    "lite-server": "^2.5.4"
  }
}
Then start the development server by typing the following at the command prompt. Make sure you are in your project folder when you enter this:
npm start
This should open your index.html page in your default browser.
If you now open the index.html page in VS Code, make changes and save, the browser should immediately refresh to reflect the changes.

(Optional: Only if Using Git) Set up .gitignore
Create a file in your project directory named .gitignore (Note: the name starts with a period!)
Then, using VS Code, add the following text to the .gitignore file:
node_modules
Then use the commands git add . and git commit to stage and commit the changes to your local repository, and use git push to push the changes to the linked online repository. (Remember there's a period in the git add . command!) 
Notice that the node_modules folder will not be added nor committed, and will not be pushed to the repository - Git will ignore it as if it doesn't exist.

Summary
In this exercise, you learned to initialize your project folder as an NPM-managed project with a package.json file.
You learned how to install an NPM package called lite-server, a lightweight development server for testing during development, and how to use set it up in your package.json file so that you can use it with the command npm start.
If using Git, you also learned how to set up a .gitignore file for files you want Git to ignore. 

Additional Resources
Why Package.json? NPM Basics
What Is Localhost?
lite-server
Previous: 1. Exercise: Node and NPM SetupExit book

Skip Table of contents
Table of contents
1. Exercise: Node and NPM Setup
2. Exercise: Using NPM
Skip Online users
Hide Online users blockMove this to the dock
Online users
(last 1 minutes: 1)
Darlin Artiles
